# CS-340-Portfolio-Submission

## Overview
This repository is for the assignment '8-2 Journal: Portfolio Item' in the course CS350 Client and Server Development. This is a way to reflect on and showcase some of the work completed in this course.

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
The main way I keep my programs maintainable, readable, and adaptable are by completing very thorough, clear and concise documentation. This includes all steps of the developement process. I also like to keep my coding style consistent that follows a standard naming conventions that are self-explanitory. My code also tends to be very modularized which helps keep the code more readable, and easy to modify without causing issues with the whole system. Some ways I could use this CRUD module in the future includes almost anything that needs a program to connect to a mongo database. The programs are limitless, and thankfully with this CRUD module it is very portable and could be used within a different program with ease as long as the mongo db information is known. 

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
The way I approach a problem typicall involves thoroughly understanding the problem and creating a list of outcomes or requirements needed to solve this problem. I then do some research to see if there is an existing solution to this problem, or if there are known algorithms or techniques that I could use to create a solution. With all this information I then design a solution to fulfill all of the requirements. Next I implement this solution by developing the code necessary to create the working program/system; this includes sufficient testing, debugging, and optimization. Lastley, I make sure to document all portions of solving this problem, this makes maintaining the program and implementing changes much easier. These are all of the general steps I used for the dashboard requirements. This project differed slightly because this was the first time I implemented the use of a database with my code, so there were some additional steps that had to be taken to get the functionality to work properly. Something I would use going forward would be the use of the existing CRUD module that I developed. Thankfully this module is very portable and could be used in many different applications with ease, which would elimate the work of having to code a new CRUD module from scratch. 

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists develop computer systems and their application. This includes designing, testing, and improving existing and new technologies. This type of work matters for many reasons, but probably the most significant being the vast innovations and advancements we have had in technology in the past century. Things like cell phones, self driving vehicles, personal computers, augmented reality, artificial intelligence, and many more would have not been possible without computer scientists. Computer scientists are also significant because they can help solve complex problems. This is how they can help companies like Grazioso Salvare, by developing an application that makes their work much more quick and efficient. With the use of the developed application, this could potentially save hundreds of hours from manually having to search through the given rescue animal data. With this saved time, the company can utilize this time with their more important goal which is helping/rescuing people. 
